# Contemporary Issues In Data Assignment
## Qianshan Weng
In this document, I look at two articles discussing the dynamics between individual privacy and mass surveillance in the digital age.

# Article 1: Balancing Privacy With Data Sharing for the Public Good
In the article [Balancing Privacy With Data Sharing for the Public Good](https://www.nytimes.com/2021/02/19/business/privacy-open-data-public.html), written by David Deming for the New York Times Business section, Deming argues that although "governments and technology companies are increasingly collecting vast amounts of personal data, prompting new laws, myriad investigations and calls for stricter regulation to protect individual privacy", the society still "needs more data sharing rather than less, because the benefits of publicly available data often outweigh the costs" (Deming).

Deming argues that data's main value comes from improving predictions. By keeping a record of what has already happened, companies like Amazon could choose products and prices based on what a shopper has bought in the past. Companies could also depend on public data to improve their businesses. Deming uses the example of the U.S. government-led Human Genome Project, where labs participating in this project would share their data in their on a public website, and he argues that this commitment to open data has been able to save lives.Overall, Deming argues that the sharing of public data has more benefits to society than the danger it presents. 

# Article 2: We Need to Take Back Our Privacy
In an op-ed titled [We Need to Take Back Our Privacy](https://www.nytimes.com/2022/05/19/opinion/privacy-technology-data.html),published in the New York Times Opinions section, Zeynep Tufekci warns against the danger of digital surveillance of personal data, in an age where social media platforms, search engines and digital devices are able to track individual actions and respond accordingly through algorithms. She argues that the tools of data surveillance could be used by law enforcements and public institutions to pose danger to certain groups in society. Therefore, it is important to protect people's privacy at this particular point in time. 

Tufekci's article was published May, 2022, more than a year later after Deming's review was published. It would seem that at this later point in time, the issue of mass digital surveillance on individuals has become more immenent. When Tufekci published the article, the Supreme Court has overturned _Roe vs. Wade_, and there are fears that "surveillance made possible by minimally-regulated digital technologies could help law enforcement or even vigilantes track down women who might seek abortions and medical providers who perform them in places where it would become criminalized" (Tufekci). She points out that apps such as period trackers could be indicators of pregnancy, and the exposure of that data to government agencies that does not approve of abortions may put some women in danger. Tufekci also points out how tech companies are selling some of their data to external agencies such as the government or other third parties, and that the current technological landscape has made it difficult  to avoid such surveillances. Ultimately, Tufekci raised the point that individual's personal data should be protected from a legal level, and that we need leginslation to make sure that individuals will not be harmed by data surveillance.